#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\topmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\series bold
Assignment 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Allen Chen (allen.sl.chen@gmail.com)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using 2 late days; 2 late days left.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Data Preprocessing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To preprocess my data, I had to perform a number of tasks for each visualization
 to coerce it into the nice JSON format that each visualization required.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
County per-capita Donation Amount Map
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The map required the most preprocessing.
 The map actually combines three different datasets: the donation datasets,
 a ZIP code-to-FIPS code (county ID) dataset
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
http://mcdc2.missouri.edu/pub/data/georef/zcta_master.Metadata.html
\end_layout

\end_inset

, and FIPS-to-population dataset
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
http://www.census.gov/geo/www/2010census/centerpop2010/county/countycenters.html
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 First, I had to process all ZIP code data from the donation dataset and
 translate them to FIPS codes.
 Then, I took the donation dataset and bucketized each total donation count
 by FIPS code, and divided each bucket by the FIPS population.
 The result was a JSON object which was keyed by FIPS code and had the value
 of average per-capita donation amount.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some preprocessing was done for the diff view as well (though it could have
 been implemented on the client side).
 I took each per-capita donation amount for Republican and Democrat, and
 subtracted them.
 I normalized the data to [0,5], which allowed me to scale the data between
 red and blue (2.5 was a indifferent color, whereas 0 was dark red and 5
 was a dark blue).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Donator Occupations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the donator occupations, I keyed a hash on occupation and populated
 the hash with occupation data from the donation dataset.
 Then, I took the top 50 occupations from each of these datasets and output
 them in a JSON format for the Bubble visualization.
 The radius is a function of the 
\series bold
square root
\series default
 of the actual occupation count, since without the square root, the graph
 would be unreadable (Retired would dominate the graph).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Donations over Time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I decided that, for donations over time, each bar should represent the cumulativ
e donations over a 7-day period to give decent granularity while maintaining
 some sort of readibility on the graph.
 I bucketized each donation into a 7-day period and added them up.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Individual Donation Amounts
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The problem initially with individual donation amounts was that the dataset
 was huge - it basically required passing a significant portion of the full
 donation dataset (all of the donation amounts).
 To keep the amount of data passed relatively low, I instead passed a subsample
 (a randomly-selected subset that was 10% the size of the original dataset).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Overall Donations Per Party & Candidate Donations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These two visualizations essentially required the same dataset.
 I preprocessed the data by bucketizing each total candidate donations by
 party, and passed it to the client.
 With the bar graph, there were a few extra data points I needed to pass
 (mean value of Republican, Democrat and Libertarian donations).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Client-Side Data Transformations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The client performs very little data transformation for most charts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For all charts, the client needs to normalize the data in order to fit the
 data within the appropriate bounds.
 For the 
\series bold
Donations over Time histogram
\series default
 (stacked view), the client needs to calculate the heights for the combined
 histogram.
 For the 
\series bold
Individual Donation Amounts boxplot
\series default
, the client needs to perform analysis to find the information for box plot.
 For the 
\series bold
Overall Donations per Party pie chart
\series default
, the client needs to transform the individual (annotated) candidate donation
 amounts to calculate the total party donation amount.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Visualization Intent
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
County per-capita Donation Amount Map
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This map portrays the average donation bias per county.
 I want to show what areas of the country are most enthusiastic/politically-acti
ve and which way they lean.
 Another way of displaying this information is a geographically-positioned
 bubble chart (size of bubble corresponding to per-capita donation amount).
 To effictively display this geographic data, a map is required.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Donator Occupations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I wanted to show what kind of people (occupation-wise) are most influential
 in the donations to different parties of candidates.
 A bubble chart was used because I wanted to display occupation frequencies
 and compare them to other occupations very quickly.
 A histogram was considered, but since there are so many data points, it
 would require too much space to display this data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Donations over Time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The purpose of this visualization is to show what times of year the political
 fundraising campaigns are most active.
 With this method, we can easily compare the total amount of donations to
 all campaigns (compared to a line graph, where we can't easily have a stacked
 view to see the total amount per party).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Individual Donation Amounts Box Plot
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The box plot shows the typical (median) donation from a donator, and emphasizes
 the vast difference between a typical donator and a major sponsor (Republicans:
 $250 small donators vs.
 $1,000,000+ from major sponsors).
 A box plot because it conveys the most important details (median, 1st/3rd
 quartile and outliers) for the question: How much money is each person
 donating?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Overall Donations per Party Pie Chart
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From the second level, we can see the distribution of the donations amongst
 Republican candidates, and we can see that the donations is extremely skewed.
 I chose this method to display the overall donations because I wanted a
 direct comparison that showed what percentage of donations go to Republicans,
 Democrats and Libertarians (and corresponding candidates).
 It very quickly answers the question: Which party has more donations? About
 what percentage of total donations does a particular party have?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Candidate Donations Bullet Chart
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The candidate donations bullet chart shows the exact donation amounts per
 candidate and the average donation amount per party (the black line that
 is common amongst all candidates is the mean value of the Republican donations).
 We can see that there are three Republican candidates that are considerably
 ahead of that mean.
 I chose this method to portray the disparity in donation amounts for Republican
 candidates.
 It answers the questions: Who has the highest Republican donation amount?
 Who is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

winning
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 in donations amongst Republicans?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
